Document changed scheduler behaviour in Version 7 (#5037)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/scheduling/index.md

reviewed: 2020-08-24
---

> The Scheduler is a lightweight/non-durable API that helps schedule a task that needs to be executed repeatedly based on a specified interval. In order to benefit from NServiceBus features such as built in retries and forwarding to the error queue it's recommended that scheduled tasks only sends messages in order to perform the actual work. One example would be to query the database for orders that needs some action to be taken and emit individual messages for each order that is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Scheduler is a lightweight/non-durable API that helps schedule a task that needs to be executed repeatedly based on a specified interval. In order to benefit from NServiceBus features such as built-in retries and forwarding to the error queue, it's recommended that scheduled tasks only send messages in order to perform the actual work. One example would be to query the database for orders that need some action to be taken and emit individual messages for each order that is found.
```

The Scheduler leverages the queuing system to trigger scheduled actions. Under heavy load there may be some disparity between the expected time of a scheduled action and execution time due to the delay between timeout messages being generated and processed. On approach to mitigating this behavior is to run the Scheduler in a dedicated endpoint so that appropriate resource allocation can put in place to ensure timely execution of scheduled actions. Or, alternatively, use a difference scheduling technology, for example:

 * A [.NET Timer](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.threading.timer.aspx).

>  * [NServiceBus Sagas](/nservicebus/sagas/)

Author: We do mention this below as well but I think it should be here as well to make the list of options complete
